_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
author_profile: true
hide_footer: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

# Hi there, I'm Pablo! 👋

I am an MSc Student in Biomedical Engineering at ETH Zurich fully funded by ['la Caixa' Foundation](https://becarios.fundacionlacaixa.org/es/pablo-blasco-fernandez-B005814), currently exploring the fascinating world of deep learning, medical image analysis and computer vision. I hold a BSc in Biomedical Engineering (top 2%) from Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, where my passion for this field first began.


## 🧬My experience

My **[CV](files/PabloBlasco_CV_Nov2024.pdf)** can be downloaded here!

- 🏥 [Sept 2024 - Present] <u>Graduate researcher</u> at the **Brigham and Women's Hospital & Harvard University**, working on aortic root shape analysis for data-driven, patient-specific digital twins (Python, Pytorch, OpenGL, Blender, Slicer3D) under the supervision of [Farhad R. Nezami](https://farhad.mit.edu/).

- 💻 [March 2024 - Oct 2024] <u>Data Science Intern</u> at **[Liom AG](https://liom.com/)**, working on non-invasive, calibration-free glucose estimation. Member of the Data Analytics Core Team within the Software & Machine Learning Engineering Team (Pandas, Scikit-learn, Mlflow, Numpy, Seaborn, Matplotlib)

- 🏥 [Sept 2023 - March 2024] <u>Graduate researcher</u> at the **Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging**, affiliated to **Harvard University** and **Massachusetts General Hospital**, working in 3D to 2D projections for brain surface segmentation (Python, Pytorch Lightning, Weights and Biases) under the supervision of [Juan Eugenio Iglesias](https://lemon.martinos.org/pi/).

- 👁️‍🗨️ [March 2023 - Aug 2023] <u>Graduate researcher</u> at the **Computer Vision Lab of ETH Zurich**, contributing to cutting-edge research at the intersection of computer vision and deep learning trough the use of training-free neural networks (Python, Pytorch, Pandas, OpenCV) under the supervision of [Ender Konukoglu](https://people.ee.ethz.ch/~kender/index.html) .

- ❤️ [Jun 2021 - Jul 2022] <u>Undergraduate Researcher</u> at the **Spanish National Center for Cardiovascular Research (CNIC)**, finding associations between cardiovascular risk factors and cerebral blood flow trough MRI image processing (MATLAB, SPM) and statistical analysis (SPM, R) with Dr. Valentin Fuster under the supervision of [Marta Cortés Canteli](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=83Pn7kcAAAAJ&hl=en).

## 🌱 Current Interests

- 🏥 Medical imaging and diagnostics: How can we leverage AI for better image-based diagnostics?
- 💻 Machine learning and AI in healthcare: What tools can make clinician's (and our) lives easier?
- 📊 Data analysis and visualization in biomedical research: Which infomation is important for our systems to support diagnosis and treatment? How can we improve data integration from multiple sources?

I'm passionate about using technology to make a positive impact on healthcare, and I'm always eager to learn and collaborate on exciting projects. 

## 📫 Get in Touch

📧 You can reach me at [pblasco@ethz.ch](mailto:pblasco@ethz.ch)

🌐 Connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pablo-blasco-fernandez/)

Looking forward to connecting and sharing knowledge with the GitHub community! Let's build a healthier world together. 🌍

Commit message:

Revise CV link and add recent research experiences
Updated CV link and added new experiences in AI/ML research and deep learning pipelines.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
author_profile: true
hide_footer: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

# Hi there, I'm Pablo! 👋

I am an MSc Student in Biomedical Engineering at ETH Zurich fully funded by ['la Caixa' Foundation](https://becarios.fundacionlacaixa.org/es/pablo-blasco-fernandez-B005814), currently exploring the fascinating world of deep learning, medical image analysis and computer vision. I hold a BSc in Biomedical Engineering (top 2%) from Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, where my passion for this field first began.


## 🧬My experience

My **[CV](files/PabloBlasco_CV_Oct2025.pdf)** can be downloaded here!

- 💊 [June 2025 – Present] <u>AI/ML Research Intern</u> at **Roche (Basel, Switzerland)**, developing annotation strategies, hierarchical classification models, and large-scale training pipelines for endoscopy video datasets in Ulcerative Colitis, leveraging HPC environments and reproducible experiment management tools (Hydra, Git, W&B).

- 🧪 [May 2025 – Present] <u>Affiliated Researcher</u> at the **Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT, Boston, USA)**, working on robust deep learning pipelines for tuberculosis detection from chest X-rays in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Ministry of Health. Focus on dataset curation, out-of-distribution detection, and reproducible deployment workflows.

- 🫀 [Sept 2024 – July 2025] <u>Graduate Researcher</u> at **Harvard Medical School & Brigham and Women’s Hospital**, where I performed CT segmentation and statistical shape modeling of aortic valves to create patient-specific digital twins, and developed machine learning classifiers for predicting cardiac outcomes.

- 💻 [March 2024 - Oct 2024] <u>Data Science Intern</u> at **[Liom AG](https://liom.com/)**, working on non-invasive, calibration-free glucose estimation. Member of the Data Analytics Core Team within the Software & Machine Learning Engineering Team (Pandas, Scikit-learn, Mlflow, Numpy, Seaborn, Matplotlib)

- 🏥 [Sept 2023 - March 2024] <u>Graduate researcher</u> at the **Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging**, affiliated to **Harvard University** and **Massachusetts General Hospital**, working in 3D to 2D projections for brain surface segmentation (Python, Pytorch Lightning, Weights and Biases) under the supervision of [Juan Eugenio Iglesias](https://lemon.martinos.org/pi/).

- 👁️‍🗨️ [March 2023 - Aug 2023] <u>Graduate researcher</u> at the **Computer Vision Lab of ETH Zurich**, contributing to cutting-edge research at the intersection of computer vision and deep learning trough the use of training-free neural networks (Python, Pytorch, Pandas, OpenCV) under the supervision of [Ender Konukoglu](https://people.ee.ethz.ch/~kender/index.html) .

- ❤️ [Jun 2021 - Jul 2022] <u>Undergraduate Researcher</u> at the **Spanish National Center for Cardiovascular Research (CNIC)**, finding associations between cardiovascular risk factors and cerebral blood flow trough MRI image processing (MATLAB, SPM) and statistical analysis (SPM, R) with Dr. Valentin Fuster under the supervision of [Marta Cortés Canteli](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=83Pn7kcAAAAJ&hl=en).

## 🌱 Current Interests

- 🏥 Medical imaging and diagnostics: How can we leverage AI for better image-based diagnostics?
- 💻 Machine learning and AI in healthcare: What tools can make clinician's (and our) lives easier?
- 📊 Data analysis and visualization in biomedical research: Which infomation is important for our systems to support diagnosis and treatment? How can we improve data integration from multiple sources?

I'm passionate about using technology to make a positive impact on healthcare, and I'm always eager to learn and collaborate on exciting projects. 

## 📫 Get in Touch

📧 You can reach me at [pblasco@ethz.ch](mailto:pblasco@ethz.ch)

🌐 Connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pablo-blasco-fernandez/)

Looking forward to connecting and sharing knowledge with the GitHub community! Let's build a healthier world together. 🌍
